.TH HSH 1 "January 2026" "Version 1.0" "Simple Shell Manual"
.SH NAME
hsh \- simple UNIX command line interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hsh
is a simple UNIX command interpreter that reads commands from standard input and executes them.
.PP
This shell is a minimalist implementation of a command line interpreter, created as an educational project.
.SH INVOCATION
The shell can be invoked interactively or non-interactively.
.PP
If standard input is not connected to a terminal, the shell reads and executes commands from its input stream.
If standard input is connected to a terminal, the shell displays a prompt and waits for user input.
.SH COMMAND EXECUTION
After receiving a command, the shell tokenizes it into words using spaces and tabs as delimiters.
The first word is treated as the command name and the remaining words as arguments.
.PP
The shell then performs the following actions:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
If the command is a built-in, it is executed in the current process.
.IP \(bu 2
Otherwise, the shell searches for the command in the directories listed in the PATH environment variable.
.IP \(bu 2
If found, the shell forks a child process and executes the command using execve().
.IP \(bu 2
If not found, an error message is printed.
.RE
.SH BUILT-IN COMMANDS
The following built-in commands are supported:
.TP
.B exit
Exit the shell with the status of the last executed command.
.TP
.B env
Print the current environment variables.
.SH PATH SEARCH
When locating a command, the shell searches the directories listed in the PATH environment variable, in order.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PATH
A colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for executable commands.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The shell exits with the status of the last executed command.
Commands that cannot be found return an exit status of 127.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Interactive mode:
.RS
.nf
$ ./hsh
#cisfun$ /bin/ls
file1 file2 file3
#cisfun$ exit
.fi
.RE
.PP
Non-interactive mode:
.RS
.nf
$ echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh
file1 file2 file3
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sh (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR dash (1)
.SH AUTHORS
See the AUTHORS file in the project repository.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This is an educational project.
